Hi, my name is Brian Caffo, and
welcome to the introduction to regression
lecture as part of
the regression Coursera class.
This is part of our data
science specialization,
and this class is co-taught by my
co-instructors Jeff Leek and Roger Peng.
We're all in the department
of biostatistics at the Johns Hopkins
Bloomberg School of Public Health.
Regression is probably the most
fundamental topic for the data scientist.
Before you do any fancy machine learning
or anything like that, your go to
procedure is going to be linear regression
or its generalization, linear models.
Regression has a rich history and it goes
back to this fellow here, Francis Galton,
who invented the, the term and
the concept regression, and the term and
the concept correlation, which is
intimately tied to linear regression.
And he did many things,
one of which was predicting a child's
height from a parent's height is a dataset
that we will investigate a lot just
because of its historical significance.
And my friend and
co instructor Jeff Leek noted that this
example is actually
surprisingly still relevant.
And here's an article from
the American Journal of Human Genetics.
Where they compare modern genetic data
using high throughput bioinformatics
to old, to the old Victorian Era
measurements created by Francis Galton,
and see that it doesn't
do too much better.
So anyway, I give you the links there.
You can read them over.
It's a very interesting, and
kind of quirky take on modern genetics and
genetic analysis, but it also goes back
and reminds us about the importance of
what Francis Galton did and
how ahead of his time he really was.
Let's go through a more modern example
that's a little bit more similar to what
a data scientist would be doing
in their day to day lives.
So, if you don't read the blog
Simply Statistics you really should.
It's written by Jeff Leek, Roger Peng,
both of who are co-instructors
in the data science specialization and
Rafael Irazarry, who has a couple classes
on add X that you should check out
who's at Harvard Biostatistics.
And Rafa wrote this post was talking
about ball hogging and players.
And he basically, you know,
here has a plot of the percentage of
the shots that were taken by Kobe Bryant,
and the point differential.
The game specific point differential.
And he fit a linear regression to it, and
he made some of the claims in this,
in the blog post.
And you can find it and,
and read the full post.
But, for example, one of the claims
is data supports the claim that if
Kobe stops ball hogging
the Lakers will win more.
But, probably more relevant to this class
is he makes this specific work, statement.
Linear regression suggests an increase
of 1% in percent of shots taken by Ko,
Kobe results in a drop of 1.16 points, and
he gives a standard error
in score differential.
So creating this sentence is what a large
part of this class will be about.
How do you create this sentence,
how do you interpret it, how do, you know,
Rafa's adhering to good statistical
practice in giving a standard error.
And these are the sorts of things we're
going to talk about in this class.
But I'd also like, just for
this example to think about, you know,
not only how it was done, but
do you agree with the analysis?
What are things that maybe Rafa
should've thought about or what,
is this a complete analysis.
And maybe read the blog post and
some of the comments.
Where some of the topics that
the germane digression anals,
regression analysis are covered there.
Let's go back to our example,
where Francis Galton was using
the parent's heights to predict
the children's heights, and
talk about the kinds of
questions we can answer.
So, we might want to use
a parent's height, and try and
predict their children's heights.
We might want to find a parsimonious and
easily described mean relationships
between the parent's and child's height.
So we don't want anything complicated.
We want the simplest
possible relationship, and
that is what regression is best at.
While machine learning and other
techniques generate highly elaborate,
in many cases, accurate prediction models,
they tend to not be parsimonious.
They tend not to explain the data,
and they tend not to generate new
parsimonious knowledge, whereas
this is what regression is good at.
This is what regression
is in fact best at.
We can talk about variation that's
unexplained by the regression model.
The so called residual variation.
We can quantify the impact that
things like genotype information has
beyond parent, parental height explained
child's height and that's related to this
American Journal of Human, European
Journal of Human Genetics paper that
looked at what re, residual variation
was left after using parental height,
or what residual variation was
left after using genetics.
And then,
very importantly, we're going to connect
this back to the subject of inference.
How do we take our data,
which is just a sample,
it only talks about that data set,
and try to
figure out what assumptions are needed to
extrapolate it to a larger population.
This is a deep subject called
statistical inference.
We have a whole another class on it
in the course area of data science
specialization.
But we're going to apply
the tools of inference,
which I'm hoping most of you
will have had as a prerequisite.
We're going to apply
the tools of inference
to this new subject of regression.
And then here's a final question
that Galton answered and
I, it's called regression to the mean or
regression to mediocrity.
And the basic question is why do
children's of very tall, why do children
of very tall parents tend to be tall, but
a little bit shorter than their parents.
And why do the children of very
short parents tend to be short, but
a little bit taller than their parents,
and this is the famous idea of so
called regression to the mean.